 NAGPUR: Industrialization seems to be the only way for India to alleviate its citizens out of poverty, according to renowned economist Partha Sen. Speaking at the Novus 2012 management conclave organized by NIT School of Management, he shared his views on the challenges in managing the global crisis. Sen is a member of various central government advisory boards related to trade, industry and finance and has taught at universities in both India and abroad."Liberalization in India was not managed properly due to which we missed the industrialization bus, "said Sen. "We talk of globalization as liberalization that went wrong. There are two types of globalization, one of trade and good and the other of financial services," he added. Sen's premise is that since India did not have a check on the foreign investments coming into the country due to which exchange rates rose sharply. "If one dollar buys you Rs 100 then India becomes a very attractive proposal for corporates abroad, but the other way round and the game changes. We have to understand that foreign direct investments and exports go hand-in-hand. Now the only way out for India out of poverty, at this point of time, is industrialization," said Sen. He did not rule out the effects of industrialization on environment and food security, but stressed that India had limited options. With small farmers flocking to cities and taking up better paying manual labour jobs the future of food security is a huge concern. "There are a large number of people who are into farming because they are not getting the opportunity to do anything else. So even if we have 10% farmers joining industries it will not affect the agriculture sector. Industrialization is the market's way of redistributing wealth and is mutually beneficial," said Sen. With the launch of National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA), many industries complain about the shortage of labour. Another economist Pinaki Chakraborty, who has worked with various state governments and World Bank as consultant, said, "Big agriculturists from Punjab say that farm labourers that usually came from Bihar have stopped coming and NREGA may certainly be one of the reasons. But I don't understand why a labourer won't come to work for you if you pay them more than the NREGA wage? It seems that very few industries are paying higher than the minimum wage to attract workers." Even with labour and wage problems being an issue, Sen believes India needs to industrialize fast and leverage the same for growth. "Countries like Japan, Thailand and China used external markets for their growth. They export much more goods which has resulted in a strong economic environment for them. We need to start looking in that direction to make up for the missed opportunity," Sen summed up.Explore Your Financial Landscape with Personalized Credit Insights.