VADODARA: Warning China’s ‘Belt and Road initiative’ (BRI) to be leading to colonization, president of the Tibetan government-in exile, Lobsang Sangay, on Wednesday expressed his concerns over the increasing influence of China in South Asia. Sangay said that one road connecting China to Tibet had led to exploitation of all kinds of minerals and natural resources.Sangay was in Vadodara to attend two programmes including a talk at Parul University and another at M S University.He highlighted how Tibet was the original laboratory for BRI – one road that ultimately lead to subjugation and colonization. He stressed that the world must learn from Tibet’s tragic experience as China’s “development aid” comes at the steepest possible price to the people, land, water and air.“Tibet is the blueprint of the BRI. Our experience with the road initiative connecting China with Tibet has not been good,” he said.“One road led to hundreds of roads in Tibet, routes and one railways led to three or four railways. One airport led to 30 airports, six military airfields. Conveniently, all these roads, railways and airport are connected to haul out natural resources and minerals from Tibet,” he said, adding that one road led to net loss to Tibet.Sangay stressed that Chinese influence is increasing across South Asia. “There was 2,500 to 3,000km- long border between Tibet and India. Now, it is between India and China. In 1950s, there was hardly any police on the border but now thousands and thousands are deployed on the border for which billions are spent,” he said.He said that the same amount could have been spend on education, poverty alleviation and uplifting the downtrodden.“But all of South Asia, be it Pakistan, Maldives, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and also Nepal are being influenced. Recently, the Nepalese government declared to make Chinese a compulsory language. This is being financed by the Chinese government. Nepal was the only Hindu country after India but now Chinese influence has even started in Nepal,” he said. Explore Your Financial Landscape with Personalized Credit Insights.