KOLKATA: Food price inflation is a matter of concern, but it is chronic poverty that worries Kaushik Basu, chief economic adviser to the Government of India, the most. "I strongly believe that food price inflation will come under control in the next few months. However, chronic poverty is unpardonable. It is a morally wrong thing to happen. Nearly 220-280 million people in India suffer from abject poverty.Even as we celebrate growth, there is a huge segment of the population left behind," Basu said at the 32nd reunion of the St Xavier's School Old Boys' Association in Kolkata on Saturday. Though the government has announced a number of schemes for poverty alleviation, the Cornell University professor believes that bureaucratic slowness and corruption is taking its toll. "Today, it is possible to find out how long a certain process takes in India as compared to other countries. The time taken to start a business in India is six times more than in Singapore. In India, it takes three years to enforce a contract. In Singapore, it takes six months. The only way out is to streamline bureaucratic procedure and reduce corruption. The government is an enabler and must set up infrastructure for development," Basu said. According to him, India is poised for great things and this has been recognised by the international media, which treated the country as a basket case' till a couple of decades ago. The country's growth performance has been phenomenal save for the previous year when the world suffered an economic slump. "Since 2003, we have been recording a growth rate of 9% (till last year). This year, the growth rate has been 8%. This is remarkable for a large country like India. Among the G20 companies, only India and China recorded clear positive growths. We only trail behind China, so far as growth rate is concerned and I see no harm in building up a sense of competitiveness to catch up with them," the economist said. Basu, who was honoured with the Padma Bhushan in 2008, studied at St Xavier's School between 1960-68.Explore Your Financial Landscape with Personalized Credit Insights.