 PATNA: India will outdo China’s gross domestic product (GDP) in a year or two though it will take at least two to three decades of development in India to catch up with the per capita growth rate of the giant Asian neighbour.  This was remarked by the chief economic adviser to the government of India, Arvind Subramanian. “China has done so well for so long that it will naturally slow down.It is an economic convergence process,” he said at an ‘Economic Survey Outreach Session’ organized by Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI)-Patna and International Growth Centre (IGC) on Friday.  There are few bright spots in the world economy with even the US and Europe slowing down. It will be interesting to see how things turn out for India in future, the economist said and pitched for ‘JAM’ (Jan-Dhan Yojana, Aadhaar number and Mobile number) solution for reaching out to the most marginalized sections and alleviating poverty. JAM can be an answer to the leakage in welfare schemes and subsidies, he said and added identification and digitization of beneficiaries and the last-mile coverage is a governance constraint, not technology constraint.  Cooperative and competitive federalism are also listed among Subramanian’s ‘big ideas’ as the most powerful forces of development in India. “The 14th Finance Commission increased the state’s share of untied funds. The state governments know if they miss the development bus, they will lose investment and human resources to other states. It will push the non-performing states to do better,” he said, citing stats to bring home the point that the chief ministers returned to power for a third term in India have given good agriculture growth rate.  Though competitive federalism may crowd out ‘bad states’, it is still required to an extent that the government feels the pressure for good governance and delivery mechanism, Subramanian said. “Also, cooperative federalism will ensure that all states get a minimum share from the Centre. The finance panel formula ensures the poorer the state, the more funds it will get from the Centre,” he added.  The audience comprised policymakers, economists and research scholars who not only tried to absorb the nitty-gritty of the Economic Survey of India 2014-15 presented by Subramanian but also put forth queries and suggestions. Subramanian highlighted the need for increased public investments. “Debt levels are high and private sector balance sheets not good. In India, we have relatively weak exit mechanisms for bad balance sheets. Understandably, private sector will not invest,” he said.  Admitting that India expected “big bang economic reforms” when a government with huge political mandate took over in May 2014, he said, “Radical reforms happen only in times of crisis and definitely never in vibrant democracies. Instead, we have focused on bold policy shift in central government-controlled areas and persistent and creative increment in others.” The dilemma with India, he said, is that manufacturing and services sector are dynamic but skill intensive and the non-skill intensive agriculture sector is politically constrained.  ADRI member-secretary Shaibal Gupta, ADRI director Prabhat P Ghosh and IGC’s India-Bihar country director Anjan Mukherjee also addressed the gathering. 