BEIJING: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Tuesday said India and China can help dislodge the West as the centre of global economic gravity if they avoid confrontation and forge a closer partnership.Singh, who was addressing the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said the two countries could come together by following what he called the 'Asian Way'."We will do it the Asian Way - avoiding confrontation and building trust, confidence and consensus. It is only in an environment of peace that prosperity in Asia can be sustained. India and China have an important role to play in building peace, security and stability in the region," he said. The Prime Minister seemed to suggest that India and China should jointly consider the possible impact of recent developments in Pakistan.He did not name Pakistan but said: "Recent developments in our neighborhood have brought home to us again the imperative need to collectively fight terrorism and extremism in all forms. As large and diverse societies, we are well placed to demonstrate the benefits of moderation and peaceful co-existence." Singh said China should commit to keeping populated areas out of any settlement of the border dispute. He repeated his theme for the democratization of world bodies like UN Security Council, saying that there was too much at stake for the two countries to remain mired in old disputes. "We are at an exciting point in history when the centre of gravity of the world economy is moving towards Asia," he said. The world economy could largely be about Asia in the 21st century just as it was all about western nations in the 20th century, he said."When countries of the size of China and India, together accounting for 2.5 billion people, begin to unshackle their creative energies, it impacts the whole world. The world knows it and is watching with interest," the Prime Minister said. Singh said that the greatest danger to development comes from extremism of all types, whether in the garb of religion or on the pretext of righting historical wrongs. Talking about the Strategic and Cooperative Partnership for Peace and Prosperity that was established by the two nations in 2005, Singh said: "We recognize the obligation to put behind us disputes and problems that have troubled our relations in the past". India-China relations influence global and regional trends, he added.India was keen to learn from China's success in creating physical infrastructure and devising strategies to provide productive employment outside the agriculture sector and poverty alleviation, Singh said. Some of the areas of potential cooperation between the two countries are science and technology, public health, education, institution building, water resources management and disaster management, he added. Singh said Indians admired China’s remarkable economic progress. "As China's largest neighbour and a friend, we cannot remain untouched by this momentous process," he added.Explore Your Financial Landscape with Personalized Credit Insights.