Arguing against the belief that authoritarian regimes are better positioned to drive economic growth and deliver on promises, Nobel economics laureate Abhijit Banerjee said the success of China or Singapore owes much more to the decentralisation of power than otherwise.Speaking at the Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF), the India-born American economist said, “You can easily argue that Singapore had a successful dictator and can easily come back and talk about Zimbabwe.We can talk about this ad nauseum… At some level authority is an illusion.”To the TOI journalist’s question as to what are the stress points of the economy, the MIT economist, who with his wife Esther Duflo and Harvard professor Michael Kremer jointly won the 2019 Nobel Economics prize, said, “We also know that due to a demand deficit in the economy, cars and two-wheelers are not selling, and those things are signs of a general fact that people lack confidence that the economy is going to grow fast so they are holding back, they are not spending.”While he said that some economic indicators in recent months have shown signs of revival, it is not to easy to reboot the economy quickly.“We are in a deep cycle. It will take some time to fix things, particularly the banking sector. We don’t have the money to do what China did which was to put the money in the banking sector, write off the loans. We cannot really afford that right now,” he said.The author of “Good Economics for Hard Times” said that the slowdown in the economy will also adversely impact poverty alleviation in the country as urban and rural sectors are interdependent.“Poverty alleviation has been happening mostly on the strength of the fact that urban sector creates low skill jobs, and a lot of rural sector works in the urban sector and sends money back. That's the peak source of transmission of growth from urban sector to rural sector. And as soon as the urban sector slows down the rural sector, the people in construction work don't have as many jobs. All of that will feed back on the rural sector,” said Banerjee.Growing cynicism of the government is also not good for the country, Banerjee said explaining why this will not help people in electing the people on merits.Referring to one of his projects in Uttar Pradesh covering 200 villages some years ago, he said, "As part of the experiment, we told the people to vote on development issues and not on caste lines. That was the message delivered through a set of puppet shows, posters and songs. We did not talk about who to vote for; all we said was vote well. We found that 10% people were less likely to vote on caste lines."He said excessive cynicism pf the politicians will force people to lose trust in them even though all of them are not corrupt. Banerjee said if people believe that all the politicians are corrupt then they will fall into the same trap of casteism because a known candidate from the community will be preferred one even if he does not deserve that trust on merit.Explore Your Financial Landscape with Personalized Credit Insights.