Beijing's announcement on raising its poverty line has been praised by newspapers across China.
A rural resident with a yearly net income of less than 2,300 yuan ($361) will now be considered living in poverty, report the People's Daily and China Daily.
This is a rise of 81% from the 2010 standard. But most newspapers chose to compare it with 2009's figure, making it a rise of 92%.
As the new policy was unveiled, President Hu Jintao told an anti-property convention in Beijing that the government was striving to provide adequate food and clothing for poverty-stricken people and ensuring their access to compulsory education, basic medical services and housing by 2020.
An editorial on the Beijing News praised the move for respecting reality and answering calls from society. 
The Global Times reports on US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's visit to Burma - which begins on Wednesday. 
Citing analysis from news agencies, the paper attacks Mrs Clinton's visit as a "gamble on foreign policy", which bets on a "dividend" of "weakening China's influence in that particular region". 
But it also quotes a political professor in Rangoon, who says Nay Pyi Taw will not turn against Beijing and lean on Washington.
Many papers, including China Daily, have also been reporting on the second sea trial by China's first aircraft carrier, while Hong Kong's South China Morning Post reveals that marine officials in China's north-west province of Liaoning have begun to send unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) to  patrol the East China Sea, where China's territorial dispute with Japan remains unresolved.
Guangzhou's 21st Century Business Herald reports on a move by the financial metropolis of Shanghai to set up series of Weibo sites - China's equivalent to Twitter - under the municipality government's various departments and bureaux to serve as news release channels.
At the same time, China Daily reports that a local government publicity chief in the south-west province of Yunnan was criticised by netizens for saying that the construction of four local government buildings cost "only 400m yuan" on his Weibo. 
© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
