China will this year relocate more than two million people from poverty-stricken communities to more developed urban areas as part of a wide-ranging plan to tackle poverty, a leading official said on Tuesday.

The relocation marks the first stage of ambitious proposals to move 10 million people from their rural backwaters as part of drive to eradicate poverty in China in the next four years.

“Many poor people live in harsh conditions or fragile environments,” Liu Yongfu, a member of China’s State Council, or Cabinet, said.

“The relocation will help them seek a better life,” he added, according to state news agency Xinhua.

Li Keqiang, the Chinese premier, vowed in March that 10 million people would be lifted out of poverty this year, following on from an official policy launched last October to bring 70 million people above the poverty line by 2020.

Despite China’s economy booming in recent decades, five per cent of the country’s 1.4 million people still live below the poverty line of 2,300 yuan (£245) a year, Xinhua said.

Poor citizens would be relocated to towns with “relatively mature public services”, enabling families to access health and education facilities, a report by China News Service (CNS) said.

Other people will be moved to “economic development zones or industrial parks”, while some will given homes near roads and water supplies.

Mr Liu said the relocation policy had previously proved successful when carried out for farmers in the northern province of Ningxia in the 1990s.

“This initiative is based on previous experiences and we have many successful cases,” Mr Liu said, according to CNS.

Lack of jobs in China’s rural areas have seen a mass migration of adults to the booming coastal cities, where children are often not given access to schools and healthcare is limited. A total of 247 million people migrated last year, according to China’s National Bureau of Statistics.

But Premier Li in December urged local authorities to provide public services for those who had been relocated.

The World Bank says two thirds of Chinese were living in poverty in 1990. Beijing regularly points to its achievements in improving the lives of hundreds of millions of its citizens as a means of legitimising its rule.

However, huge inequalities still exist in Communist China, where a recent report showed that the top one percent of households own about one-third of the country's wealth, while the bottom 25 percent have only one percent.